I am sama Kircher with BR PC - and we're
here at the Miami International Boat
Show 2010 you may have heard about
braking system on a personal watercraft
and we're gonna explain how the CDI BR
or intelligent brake and reverse system
actually works so now with the
fly-by-wire system we are able to get
rid of the large reverse handle and
actually integrate it into the handlebar
so it's very similar to a snowmobile or
a bicycle or a lot of different vehicles
have the brake lever on the handlebars
just simply pulling in the lever
overrides any throttle input so it
overrides a throttle input and then it
drops down what essentially is the
reverse and brake bucket you can see the
reverse bucket underneath that's nothing
new sea-doo invented that in 1990 what
is new is this large aluminum gate
behind that and when it's fully
depressed it drops down below the hall
about two inches and kind of acts as a
reverse spoiler kinda like a parachute
in the water so it really grabs a lot of
water creating a lot of drag but it
pulls the watercraft from the back so
the riders in total control and it
brings the watercraft to a stop in about
half the distance of a watercraft
without this system
one of the unique features of the IVR
system is it starts in neutral that's a
new feature traditionally watercraft
alloys started in Ford so again the
rider has more control by starting in
neutral and it's super easy to code a
forward neutral reverse with a handlebar
mounted system so you go in Reverse you
simply pull the lever all the way in to
be in neutral you let it go
and then to going forward you simply top
the throttle lever and away you go one
of the other innovative features that
BRP c2 introduced in 2009 is the
intelligent suspension system it's the
first full rider suspension system
designed to give the rider the smoothest
ride possible in all water conditions at
the heart of the system is a box gas
shock and a spring utilizing a spring
arm on the rear end of the watercraft so
the entire riding environment is
suspended it's got a full six inches to
travel to really suck up some of those
hard impacts now the intelligent part of
the system is operated by a computer the
computer is constantly measuring the
travel of the top deck to give the
smoothest ride possible adjusting it 100
times a second to really give it a
dampening effect whether it's choppy
water or flat water so that's the hard
of the intelligent suspension system